>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, MARCH 29th, RUSSIA
TROOPS MASS AT THE UKRAINIAN
BORDER
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
LANDMARK LAWSUIT OVER TEACHE
TENURE
>> STUDENTS' RIGHTS TO BE IN
FRONT OF A HIGHLY EFFECTIV
TEACHER, TO BLOW UP THE ENTIRE
SYSTEM REALLY MISSES THE BOAT.
>>> AND THIS YOUNG MAN'S
UNLIKELY JOURNEY
NEXT, ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
>>> FROM LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW
YORK
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SERGE
LAVROV AND SECRETARY OF STAT
JOHN KERRY WILL MEET TOMORROW IN
PARIS TO DISCUSS THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
LAVROV SAID HIS COUNTRY HAS NO
INTEREST IN INVADING EASTERN
UKRAINE.
THIS DESPITE A LARGE BUILDUP O
RUSSIAN TROOPS NEAR THE BORDER
BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
NATO SECRETARY-GENERAL SAID TH
ALLIANCE IS WORRIED ABOU
RUSSIA'S ATTENTIONS AND CALLED
THE TROOP BUILDUP A CONCRETE
THREAT TO UKRAINE.
>>> IT IS NOW THREE WEEKS SINC
MALAYSIA AIRLINES FLIGHT 370
WENT MISSING, AND TODAY THE HUNT
FOR THE 777 TRIPLED 700 MILE
FROM WHERE THE SERB WAS GOIN
ON
ONE OF THE AIRCRAFT FOUND THRE
BRIGHTLY COLORED OBJECTS IN TH
NEW SEARCH AREA.
>>> WRAPPING UP HIS WEEK-LON
TRIP IN EUROPE AND SAUDI ARABI
THIS MORNING, PRESIDENT OBAM
BESTOWED A HUMAN RIGHTS AWARD ON
A WOMAN WHO PROMOTES STOPPIN
VIOLENCE IN THAT COUNTRY
THE PRESIDENT REPORTEDLY DID NOT
RAISE THE ISSUE OF HUMAN RIGHT
OR WOMEN'S RIGHTS IN SAUDI
ARABIA DURING HIS CONVERSATION
WITH SAUDI KING ABDULLAH
>>> AT THE STROKE OF MIDNIGHT,
GAY MARRIAGE BECAME LEGAL IN
ENGLAND AND WALES, AND GAV
COUPLES ACROSS THAT COUNTRY TO
TIE THE KNOT
LAST JULY PARLIAMENT PASSE
LEGISLATION LEGALIZING SAME-SE
MARRIAGE WITH DAVID CAMERON.
CIVIL PARTNERSHIPS HAD BEE
LEGAL SINCE 2005
BRITAIN IS NOW THE 15th COUNTR
TO ALLOW GAY MARRIAGE.
>>> A PROMISING TREATMENT TO
HELP MILLIONS OF AMERICANS WIT
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE HAS BEEN
SHOWN TO BE INEFFECTIVE.
THE TREATMENT CALLED RENAL
DENERVATION FAILED TO REDUCE
HYPERTENSION
THE TREATMENT WAS CONSIDERED A
BREAK-THROUGH FOR HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE THAT COULDN'T B
LOWERED WITH DRUGS
>>> AN EARTHQUAKE STRUCK THE
DOWNTOWN AREA, BUT THE QUAKE
BROKE WATER MAINS.
OBJECTS WERE ALSO TOSSED FRO
STOOR SHELVES.
TLR WITH DOZENS OF AFTER-SHOCK
OVERNIGHT.
>>> IN WASHINGTON STATE, A
MOMENT OF SILENCE.
TO MARK THE MOMENT A WEEK AG
TODAY WHEN A HUGE LANDSLID
BURIED A CLUSTER OF HOMES NORT
OF SEATTLE
27 PEOPLE ARE PRESUMED DEAD AN
90 MORE ARE STILL BELIEVED
MISSING.
>>> THE REVELATION LAT
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON THAT RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN CALLE
PRESIDENT OBAMA WITH HOPES THA
THE SITUATION IN UKRAINE MIGHT
BE SOLVED THROUGH DIPLOMACY.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RUSSIAN
SOLDIERS SHOW NO SIGN OF PULLING
BACK
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE'RE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON B
ANTHONY FROM THE CENTER FO
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUD
SIS.
SO, THERE ARE SOME ESTIMATES B
UKRAINIANS THERE MIGHT BE UP T
85,000 RUSSIAN TROOPS ALONG TH
BORDER
WHATEVER THE NUMBER IS, DO W
KNOW ABOUT THE COMPOSITION O
THOSE FORCES
AND WHAT CAN RUSSIA DO WITH THAT
KIND OF AN ARMY?
>> WELL, FIRST, WE DON'T REALL
KNOW THE EXACT STRUCTURE
WE HAVE BEEN TOLD ON BACKGROUND,
THERE ARE BETWEEN 48,000 AND
50,000 AT LEAST TROOPS
THEY HAVEN'T IDENTIFIED WHIC
UNITS THEY BELONG TO
BUT RUSSIA ANNOUNCED THERE WER
GOING TO BE EXERCISES, AND THERE
HAVEN'T BEEN ANY EXERCISES, THEY
JUST KEPT BUILDING UP
PRESENCE, ONE THAT COULD B
GOING INTO EASTERN UKRAINE
TROOPS AREN'T THE ONLY PROBLEM
THERE ARE VERY LARGE NUMBERS O
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR UNITS
RUSSIA ALSO HAS.
THESE ARE ALMOST IDEAL TROOP
FOR OCCUPYING CITIES AND URBAN
AREAS.
THERE ARE CERTAINLY PRO-RUSSIA
ELEMENTS IN SOME OF THE CITIES
IN THE EASTERN UKRAINE
SO AT ALMOST ANY TIME YOU COUL
HAVE A RUSSIAN THRUST INTO THE
EASTERN UKRAINE, AND ONE THA
COULD AT LEAST TAKE SOME CITIES,
PROBABLY IN A MATTER OF DAYS, IF
NOT HOURS.
>> WE'VE BEEN FOCUSED ON CRIMEA.
ARE THERE OTHER REGIONS WE NEE
TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT?
LAST WEEK WE MENTIONED THE ARE
BETWEEN MOLDOVA AND UKRAINE.
>> RUSSIA HAS A LIMITED PRESENCE
IN THE AREA ALREADY.
IT IS NOT A MARRIAGE COMBA
PRESENCE, BUT THERE IS NO MAJO
COMBAT PRESENCE IN THAT AREA, IN
THE UKRAINE TO THE EAST OR T
THE WEST
IT'S CERTAINLY AN AREA RUSSI
COULD SUDDENLY PUT PRESSURE ON
THE UKRAINE.
THERE IS AN AIRBORNE GUARD
DIVISION, BASICALLY, WHICH COULD
BE MOVED IN, AT LEAST IN PART,
FAIRLY QUICKLY
BECAUSE THE UKRAINE, FRANKLY, IS
NOT CAPABLE OF EFFECTIVE AIR
DEFENSE.
SO RUSSIA CERTAINLY HAS TH
ABILITY TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE
UKRAINE IN TWO DIFFERENT
DIRECTIONS
AND I THINK WHAT'S OF GREA
CONCERN TO THE UKRAINE IS WHEN
PUTIN CALLED OBAMA, HE DIDN'
TALK ABOUT NEGOTIATIONS ALONE,
HE TALKED ABOUT THE FACT THA
RUSSIA HAD NO INTENTION OF
INVADING IF THE UKRAINE DID NO
HAVE HARD LINE ELEMENTS IN ITS
GOVERNMENT, IF THERE ARE N
PROTESTS AGAINST THE RUSSIANS.
SO IT REALLY WAS NOT IN AN
SENSE A QUICK INITIATIVE TOWARDS
PEACE.
>> SO COUNTRIES LIKE ASTONIA
LITHUANIA, LATVIA, THEY'VE BEE
ASKED FOR INCREASED NATO
PRESENCE
DO THEY HAVE REASON TO B
CONCERNED?
>> WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY ELEMEN
OF RUSSIAN INVASION, BUT THE
BALTIC STATES ARE NEAR MAJOR
RUSSIAN FORCES
THEY REALLY DON'T HAVE TO DO
ANYTHING
THEY'RE ALREADY THERE.
TO PUT PRESSURE ON THEM.
AND WE HAVE MOVED U.S. AIRCRAF
INTO ONE OF THOSE STATES, AS W
HAVE INTO POLAND
BUT I THINK CERTAINLY IN TODAY'S
CLIMATE, THE PROBLEM IS, IF TH
UKRAINE BECOMES A MAJOR SOURCE
OF CONFRONTATION BETWEEN EAS
AND WEST, IF RUSSIA GOES BEYON
THE CRIMEA, AND THRUSTS INTO THE
UKRAINE, THEN NATO'S RESPONS
WOULD HAVE TO BE LARGELY I
OTHER AREAS, AND THAT COUL
TRIGGER A PROCESS OF
CONFRONTATION, THAT NONE O
THESE STATES CAN PREDICT
>> ANTHONY, JOINING US FRO
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
OUR ORIGINAL IN-DEPTH REPORT
FROM AROUND THE NATION AND THE
WORLD.
FOR YEARS A DEBATE HAS RAGED
ACROSS THE UNITED STATES ABOUT
TENURE FOR TEACHERS.
THAT BATTLE IS NOW PLAYING OUT
IN A CALIFORNIA COURTROOM WHER
A NUMBER OF STUDENTS HAVE JOINED
FORCES WITH A MULTIMILLIONAIRE
TO TRY TO STRIKE DOWN THAT
STATE'S TENURE LAWS.
AN EFFORT BEING RESISTED BY TH
TEACHERS UNION
FINAL ARGUMENTS IN THE CASE WERE
THURSDAY
MEGAN THOMPSON REPORTS
>> SISTERS BEATRICE AN
ELIZABETH ATTEND PUBLIC HIGH
SCHOOL IN A LOW-INCOME MOSTL
HISPANIC SECTION OF NORTHERN LOS
ANGELES.
THE GIRLS ARE AIMING FOR
COLLEGE, AND WOULD BE THE FIRS
IN THE FAMILY WITH HIGHE
DEGREES.
BUT THE SISTERS SAY IN MIDDL
SCHOOL, THEY FACE OBSTACLES IN
PURSUING THEIR EDUCATION
CHAOTIC CLASSROOMS AND LITTLE TO
NO INSTRUCTION
ELIZABETH, NOW A JUNIOR, AND
BEATRICE, A SOPHOMORE, SAY BAC
IN 7th GRADE THEY BOTH HAD A
PARTICULARLY BAD HISTORY
TEACHER.
>> HE WOULD JUST BE AT HIS DESK.
USE HIS COMPUTER, OR SLEEPING.
>> I DIDN'T LEARN ANYTHING
>> HE WOULD LET STUDENTS SMOKE
MARIJUANA IN CLASS
>> Reporter: BEATRICE ALSO SAY
A SCIENCE TEACHER WAS OFFENSIVE.
>> HE WOULD CALL THIS GIRL A -
AND GO OVER THERE.
>> WHAT WENT THROUGH YOUR MIND
WHEN YOU HEARD THAT?
>> I DIDN'T WANT TO -- I DIDN'
WANT HIM TO OFFEND ME.
>> Reporter: THEY WERE REALL
BEING TRAUMATIZED BY THESE
TEACHERS
BEATRICE AND ELIZABETH'S MOTHER,
WHO EMIGRATED FROM MEXICO, SAI
SHE COMPLAINED TO A SCHOOL
ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT THE TW
TEACHERS, AND TWO OTHERS
BUT SHE SAYS NOTHING HAPPENED.
>> HE DIDN'T DO ANYTHING T
ADDRESS THE SITUATION.
THEY DIDN'T TAKE ME SERIOUSLY.
>> SO IN 2012 SHE VOLUNTEERE
HER DAUGHTERS TO JOIN A LAWSUI
AGAINST THE STATE AND TEACHERS
UNIONS THAT WENT TO TRIAL IN
JANUARY.
>> I FELT I WAS WASTING MY TIME.
NOT LEARNING ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: THE NINE STUDEN
PLAINTIFFS IN THE CASE ARE
CHALLENGING TWO MAIN AREAS O
STATE LAW.
PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT AND
DISMISSAL STATUTES, TH
PLAINTIFFS SAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT
TO GET RID OF BAD TEACHERS
AND THE SENIORITY BASED LAYOFF
SYSTEM, WHICH THEY SAY MAKES I
HARD TO KEEP GOOD, LESS SENIOR
TEACHERS DURING DIFFICULT TIMES.
>> THERE WERE CERTAIN TEACHERS
THAT YOU KNEW, IF YOU GOT STUC
IN THEIR CLASS, YOU WOULDN'T
LEARN A THING.
>> INSTEAD OF LEARNING A
SUBJECT, HE SAT IN THE CLASS
COLORING AND WATCHING VIDEOS
>> Reporter: THE PLAINTIFFS SA
THE LAWS DENY STUDENTS THEIR
RIGHT TO A QUALITY EDUCATION
GUARANTEED BY THE CALIFORNIA
CONSTITUTION
AND AFFECT MINORITY STUDENTS
EXPERTS SAY THE LEGAL STRATEGY
COULD BE USED TO CHALLENGE
EDUCATION LAWS IN OTHER STATES
>> OUR EDUCATION SYSTEM DELIVERS
A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT
SO THERE'S A CERTAIN
RESPONSIBILITY OF OUR SOCIETY TO
DELIVER.
>> I BELIEVE EVERY CHILD
EVERYWHERE -
>> Reporter: DAVID WELSH IS
WEALTHY SILICON VALLEY
ENTREPRENEUR WHO LARGELY
FINANCES STUDENTS MATTER, AN
EDUCATION REFORM GROUP THA
SPEARHEADED THE LAWSUIT.
AS OF 2012, WELSH HAD DONATED OR
LOANED NEARLY $2 MILLION TO TH
GROUP, WHICH IS FOOTINGS THE
BILL FOR A HIGH-POWERED LEGA
TIME THAT INCLUDES TED OLSON
FORMER SOLICITOR GENERAL OF TH
UNITED STATES.
HE WENT TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS FO
MOST OF HIS EDUCATION.
>> MOST OF THESE TEACHERS HAVE
HAD A SUCCESSFUL CAREER.
>> Reporter: WELSH ALSO HA
THREE YOUNG KIDS, AND HA
SUPPORTED OTHER EDUCATION AN
ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES OVER TH
YEARS.
WHAT MOTIVATED YOU
>> I'M A FATHER, I'M A
EMPLOYER, AND WHEN I LOOK AT THE
SYSTEM, I REALIZE THE SYSTEM
ACTUALLY INHIBITS ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT THINGS FOR AN
EDUCATION, FOR A CHILD, AN
THAT'S ACCESS -- UNIFORM ACCES
FOR EVERY CHILD TO HAVE
PASSION AL AND EFFECTIVE
TEACHER.
>> Reporter: SOME PEOPLE SAY
KIDS WERE RECRUITED.
MAYBE THEY'RE JUST BEING USE
FOR THE PERSONAL MISSION OF
WEALTHY BUSINESSMAN.
>> WHEN YOU SAT THERE AND WATC
THE CHILDREN GET ON THE STAND,
THERE'S NO ONE THAT PUT THEM U
TO THAT OTHER THAN THEMSELVES.
>> AND MADE ME NOT WANT TO TRY
OR SHOW UP TO SCHOOL
>> Reporter: ONE LAW HE'
FIGHTING IS THE STATUTE THAT
GOVERNS TEACHER LAYOFFS.
CALIFORNIA IS ONE OF TEN STATE
THAT REQUIRES SENIORITY BE
CONSIDERED TO DETERMINE WH
STAYS OR GOES DURING BUDGE
CUTS
JOHN IS THE SUPERINTENDENT O
THE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, AND
HE TESTIFIED AGAINST THE
SO-CALLED IN, FIRST OUT LAW.
>> I CAN'T FIND A MORE
DESTRUCTIVE STATUTE FOR TH
STUDENTS, STAFF OR SYSTEM.
WE'VE HAD TO LAY OFF VER
EFFECTIVE TEACHERS IN THE SAME
SCHOOL THAT WE ARE DOCUMENTING
THE TEACHER FOR DISMISSAL.
>> THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS TO TH
SCHOOL, THEIR RELATIONSHIPS WITH
STUDENTS, HOW THEY'RE SUPPORTING
AND HELPING PARENTS, NONE OF THE
FACTORS OTHER THAN THE HIRIN
DATE IS USED
NOW, IS SENIORITY AN IMPORTANT
CONTRIBUTION
I WOULD ARGUE IT IS.
IT SHOULDN'T BE THE ONLY FACTOR,
HOWEVER.
>> Reporter: THE LAWSUIT ALS
CHALLENGES LAWS GOVERNIN
TEACHER TENURE
CALIFORNIA'S TWO-YEA
PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NE
TEACHERS IS ONE OF THE SHORTES
IN THE NATION.
AFTER TWO YEARS, MOST TEACHERS
GET PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT STATUS.
SUPERINTENDENT GACY SAID THA
PERMANENT STATUS MEANS THE L.A
SCHOOL DISTRICT CAN END UP
SPENDING HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
TO FIRE A SINGLE UNDERPERFORMING
TEACHER, A PROCESS HE SAYS COULD
TAKE UP TO A DECADE.
>> THE OVERWHELMING MAJORITY O
TEACHERS ARE AMAZING PEOPLE.
PHENOMENAL PEOPLE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A SMAL
SUBSET WHO SHOULD AND MUST LEAVE
EMPLOYMENT
>> IT CAME OUT IN THE TRIAL THAT
ONLY ABOUT 3% OF TEACHERS WH
WERE EVALUATED LAST YEAR WER
BELOW STANDARD
SHOULD WE OVERHAUL THE ENTIR
SYSTEM TO TAKE CARE OF WHA
MIGHT BE A FEW BAD APPLES?
>> WHEN YOU'VE IDENTIFIE
CHRONIC LOW PERFORMERS, YO
CAN'T EXIT THEM QUICK ENOUGH S
THE STUDENTS ARE NOT BEING
HARMED
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
>> ARE THERE TEACHERS WH
SHOULDN'T IN THE CLASSROOM
ABSOLUTELY
BUT TO BLOW UP THE ENTIRE SYSTEM
FOR EVALUATING AND PROTECTIN
TEACHER RIGHTS BASED ON A COUPLE
OF STUDENTS' PERSPECTIVE,
THINK REALLY MISSES THE BOAT
>> Reporter: JOSHUA IS PRESIDENT
OF THE CALIFORNIA FEDERATION O
TEACHERS, ONE OF THE UNION
FIGHTING THE LAWSUIT
HE SAYS THE UNION SUPPORTS
EFFORTS TO STREAMLINE TH
DISMISSAL PROCESS.
>> I THINK THE PROCESS COULD B
MORE EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT
>> Reporter: HE SAID MAN
INEFFECTIVE TEACHERS ARE WEEDE
OUT DURING THE TWO-YEA
PROBATION PERIOD
AND HE SAYS GRANTING PERMANENT
STATUS TO THE REST ENCOURAGE
THEM TO STAY OP THE JOB, DESPITE
OFTEN DIFFICULT CLASS ROOM
CONDITIONS
>> THE BIGGER PROBLEM WE HAVE IN
CALIFORNIA, AND I THIN
NATIONALLY, IS THAT WE CAN'T
KEEP TEACHERS IN THE PROFESSION.
CLASSES ARE OVERCROWDED.
THAT REALLY IS A BIGGER ISSUE IN
PUBLIC EDUCATION
THAT'S CREATING CONDITIONS THA
MAKE IT ATTRACTIVE FOR PEOPLE TO
MAKE THIS A LIFE-LON
PROFESSION
>> Reporter: THIS 4th GRAD
TEACHER IN ENGLEWOOD
CALIFORNIA, SAYS SHE KNOWS
FIRSTHAND HOW PRECARIOUS HER JOB
CAN BE
SHE'S BEEN LAID OFF THREE TIME
IN THE LAST THREE YEARS BECAUS
SHE DOESN'T HAVE ENOUG
SENIORITY, THEN BROUGHT BACK
EVEN THOUGH, SHE SUPPORTS TH
SENIORITY BASED LAYOFF SYSTEM.
SHE SAID IT'S OBJECTIVE AN
CLEAR.
>> IT'S FAIR
IT'S FAIR, AND I SUPPORT IT.
>> Reporter: SHE ALSO SAYS SHE
SUPPORTS THE OTHER PART OF THE
LAW THAT'S BEING CHALLENGED.
PERMANENT STATUS FOR TEACHER
AFTER TWO YEARS.
SHE SAYS THAT PROVISION ACTUALLY
ADVOCATES FOR STUDENTS WITHOUT
FEAR OF BEING FIRED.
>> I SPEAK OUT VERY FREQUENTLY
ABOUT RESOURCES BEING BROUGHT TO
OUR DISTRICT, FOR LOWERING CLASS
SIZES.
IF I'M LOCAL, SOMEONE DOESN'
LIKE WHAT I'M SAYING, THEN I CAN
BE LET GO FOR THAT
AND I DON'T THINK THAT'S FAIR.
>> Reporter: AND THEY ALSO SAY A
TEACHER'S EFFECTIVENESS IS
DIFFICULT TO MEASURE
AND THEY SAY STUDENTS DON'
NECESSARILY CONNECT WITH EVERY
TEACHER.
DURING THE TRIAL, ELIZABET
TESTIFIED THAT SHE LEARNED
NOTHING IN ENGLISH CLASS, AN
WASN'T ASSIGNED AN ENTIRE BOOK
TO READ ALL YEAR
BUT THE TEACHER TESTIFIED THAT
HER READING SCORES ACTUALLY WEST
UP
>> WE READ AND WROTE EVERY DAY
>> DID YOU EVER RECEIVE AN
NEGATIVE MARKS ON YOUR
EVALUATIONS OR OBSERVATIONS?
>> I DID NOT
>> Reporter: THE DEFENSE ALS
ARGUED MANY SUPERINTENDENTS,
INCLUDING DAISY, HAD THE RULE TO
GET RID OF INEFFECTIVE TEACHERS.
>> TO INCREASE THE DISMISSAL
FROM TEN IN 2009, TO 99 IN THE
2011 TO 2012 SCHOOL YEAR
CORRECT?
>> I BELIEVE THAT'S ACCURATE
>> PEOPLE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THIS ISSUE SAID THIS ISN'T ABOUT
THE STATUTE, IT'S ABOUT TH
MANAGEMENT
THE SCHOOL IS WELL RUN, THEY CAN
GET RID OF INEFFECTIVE TEACHERS.
>> THAT IS NOT THE POINT
THE POINT IS, STUDENTS' RIGHTS
TO BE IN FRONT OF A HIGHLY
EFFECTIVE TEACHER.
A TEACHER WHO IS NOT HARMING
THEM EVERY SINGLE DAY OF THE
YEAR
>> Reporter: THE SISTERS SAY
THAT'S ALL THEY WANT FOR THEIR
OLD MIDDLE SCHOOL.
AS IT TURNS OUT THE FIRST TW
TEACHERS THEY COMPLAINED ABOUT
ARE STILL TEACHING THERE
>> IT'S HORRIBLE
THERE ARE STUDENTS WHO ACTUALL
WANT TO LEARN.
>> I WANT TO HAVE GOOD TEACHER
THAT MOTIVATE ME
NOT ONLY ME, BUT EVERYONE.
>> Reporter: THE JUDGE WIL
DELIVER A VERDICT IN THE CASE IN
THE COMING WEEKS
ANY DECISION HE MAKES IS
EXPECTED TO BE APPEALED.
>> FIND OUT WHICH STATES HAV
TEACHER TENURE LAWS.
>>> SOME OF THE WORLD'S BEST
YOUNG OPERA SINGERS HAIL FROM
PLACE THAT MIGHT SURPRISE YOU.
THE IMPOVERISHED BLACK TOWNSHIPS
OF SOUTH AFRICA.
THEY'RE PERFORMING AT TH
DOCUMENTARY FILM FESTIVAL, FOR A
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT THEIR LIVES.
THE FILM'S DIRECTOR, JULIE
COHEN, TELLS THE STORY OF ONE OF
THE SINGERS.
>> I GREW UP IN DIFFICULTY
I GREW UP IN POVERTY
THERE WAS A TIME WHERE MY MO
AND DAD BOTH DIDN'T WORK, BU
THEY TRIED TO MAKE SURE THER
WAS SOMETHING ON THE TABLE FOR
US TO EAT.
>> HE GREW UP IN A TOWNSHIP IN
CENTRAL SOUTH AFRICA
WITH THE SAME CHALLENGES
CONFRONTING MANY OF TH
COUNTRY'S BLACK COMMUNITIES.
CRIME, POOR ACCESS TO HEALTH
CARE, AND AN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
OF UP TO 70%
>> MY DAD WAS A MESSENGER IN A
BANK BEFORE HE WAS RETRENCHED.
>> IN HIS EARLY CHILDHOOD,
BEFORE APARTHEID ENDED AND
NELSON MANDELA WAS ELECTED
PRESIDENT IN 1994, THE FAMIL
HAD TO CONTEND WITH RACIST LAW
THAT RESTRICTED TRAVEL AND
EDUCATION.
>> THAT IS WHY I ALWAYS TELL ALL
MY CHILDREN THAT SINCE WE ARE IN
NEW ENVIRONMENT, PLEASE DEVOTE
YOURSELF TO STATUS
>> HIS VISION OF A BETTER LIFE
WAS FILLED WITH MUSIC.
IN HIS CHURCH CHOIR HE
DISCOVERED A TALENT FOR SINGING.
HE WAS CHOSEN FOR A COMMUNIT
CHORUS WHERE HE FIRST LEARNE
OPERA, WHICH HE WANTED TO PURSUE
AS A CAREER.
HIS PARENTS, WHO HOPED HE WOUL
SUPPORT THEM IN OLD AGE, WER
SKEPTICAL.
DID YOUR FATHER MAKE THOSE
CONCERNS CLEAR TO YOU?
>> YES, HE MADE THEM QUITE
CLEAR.
I MEAN, THE DREAM WAS MINE
>> HE WAS ACCEPTED TO THE OPER
SCHOOL AT THE UNIVERSITY O
CAPETOWN, WHICH HAD BEEN WHITE
ONLY FOR MOST OF ITS 100-YEA
HISTORY.
>> OUR CULTURE IS A THING TO G
TO UNIVERSITY.
>> THE FAMILY WAS ABLE TO SCRAPE
TOGETHER BUS FARE TO SEND HIM TO
CAPETOWN
HE WAS AWARDED A SCHOLARSHIP
INCLUDING ROOM AND BOARD
>> THE RIGHT TO MUSIC.
I FEEL IT'S A FUNDAMENTAL HUMA
RIGHT.
WE ALL HAVE A RIGHT TO HAVE
CHANCE TO MAKE MUSIC
>> BUT WITH A FIRST-GRAD
EDUCATION, IT OPENED DOORS T
OPPORTUNITIES UNTHINKABLE
GENERATION AGO
SHORTLY AFTER COMPLETING HIS
UNDERGRADUATE DEGREE, HE WAS
SELECTED AS AN APPRENTICE IN
UPSTATE NEW YORK, AND INVITED TO
SING BEFORE THE UNITED NATIONS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
>> IT WAS AN AUSPICIOU
OCCASION
A VERY ELEGANT DIFFERENT
POSTURE.
>> BUT AS THRILLED AS HE WAS B
ACCOLADES FROM AROUND THE WORLD,
HE HAD ANOTHER AUDIENCE IN MIND,
HIS MOM AND DAD HAD NEVER SEEN
AN OPERA
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A
THEATER.
>> THE MAKERS OF "I LIVE T
SING" PAID FOR PLANE TICKETS S
HIS PARENTS COULD COME T
CAPETOWN TO SEE HIM PERFORM.
THE CITY'S MAIN OPERA HALL ONC
CLOSED TO BOTH BLACK PERFORMER
AND BLACK AUDIENCES IS NOW A
LAUNCHING PAD FOR A NE
GENERATION OF BLACK OPERA STARS.
AS HIS PARENTS LISTENE
INTENTLY, HE TOOK CENTER STAGE
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND SATURDAY
>>> AND NOW TO VIEWERS LIKE YOU,
YOUR CHANCE TO TELL US WHAT YO
THINK.
TONIGHT, SOME OF THE COMMENT
YOU JUDGED MOST POPULAR.
WE HEARD FROM MANY OF YOU ABOU
OUR REPORT LAST WEEK FROM TH
NETHERLANDS ABOUT THE POT LAWS
THERE.
SOMETHING WE THOUGHT WAS
ESPECIALLY TIMELY AS TUESDAY'S
COLORADO AND WASHINGTON HA
LEGALIZED RECREATIONAL
MARIJUANA.
JILLIAN ECHOED COMMENTS BY A
DUTCH RESEARCHER WHO SAI
MARIJUANA IS LESS DAMAGING THA
OTHER LEGAL SUBSTANCES AND SAI
WE COULD PREVENT A LOT OF HARM
ALCOHOL CAUSES BY CHOOSING
CANNABIS INSTEAD OF ALCOHOL.
AUGUST RESPONDED BY SAYING,
AGREE.
TOLERANCE, FLEXIBILITY
PRAGMATISM IS KEY INDEED
I'M AGAINST DRUGS, I ALWAY
DISCOURAGE CANNABIS CONSUMPTION,
BUT BELIEVE IN REGULATIO
BECAUSE IT RESULTS IN A LESS
HARMFUL SOCIETY.
A VIEWER CALLED CANDID 1 WAS
CRITICAL OF OUR REPORT SAYING,
COMPARING TWO MODEST SIZ
WESTERN U.S. STATES WITH A
MODEST SIZE SOVEREIGN OLD WORL
NATION IS A STRETCH.
PIERRE CHIMED IN ON FACEBOOK
HE WROTE, AS WITH ALL THINGS
AMERICANS WILL DO THINGS OUR OWN
WAY, AND WE DON'T NEED LESSONS
IN CAPITALISM FROM ANYONE.
STRONGER FORCES WILL OVERCOM
WEAKER ONES, ADVANTAGES WILL B
EXPLOITED, WHATEVER NEGATIVE
HEALTH IMPLICATIONS THERE AR
WILL BE ABSORBED IN THE NAME O
THE MONEY GENERATED.
SOME OF THE TOUGHEST LANGUAG
CAME FROM DOUGLAS, WHO WANTED US
TO COME DOWN FORCEFULLY IN FAVOR
OF LEGALIZATION.
WOULD IT KILL YOU TO DEVELOP
JUST A LITTLE BIT OF AN EDGE
SOMETHING BOLD RATHER THAN
MEANDERING PIECES LIKE THIS?
LET US KNOW WHAT YOU THINK
OUR WEBSITE IS NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
THERE YOU'LL ALSO SEE A TIMELINE
DOCUMENTING THE DRAMATIC CHANGES
TO AMERICAN AND DUTCH DRUG LAWS.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW
WE'LL TAKE YOU TO EAST AFRIC
WHERE SOME COUNTRIES ARE
DEVISING PLANS TO TRY TO PROFI
FROM E-WEIGHT, DISCARDED
COMPUTERS COMING FROM THE UNITED
STATES AND OTHER WESTERN
COUNTRIES.
>> LOOKING AT INCOME GENERATING.
>> THAT'S THIS EDITION OF PB
NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING